[pt-BR](./README.pt-br.md)

# Explanation of templates directory

This README, as also stated in the project's main README, aims to explain the templates folder, its files, and functions. Before explaining each template, a definition of a template, valid specifically for this project, is provided below. A template is a text file containing a generic page structure model that should always be reused when assembling HTML files, like a mold. In this project, there are four templates intended to uniformly compose different parts of the final HTML document, filling its basic structure. These templates are: head.html, header.md, footer.md, and nav.html. Furthermore, they can be freely modified like simpage scripts; however, incorrect or incomplete changes can break the entire project until they are corrected or undone. Finally, the information below explains the composition and purpose of each template in this directory.

## header.md

Being, by default, the first template to be read by the project scripts, the
header.md file stores the basic initial definitions used by lowdown to generate
the HTML document from the markdown file. Before lowdown is invoked, the
contents of this file are concatenated at the beginning of the article written
in user markdown. The content of header.md, by default, is

```
1 author: Your name, the creator and maintainer of website pages
2 lang: en-US
3 css: /styles/simple.css  /styles/giscus.css  /styles/table.css  /styles/images.css
```

On line 1, the text inserted after `author: ` until the end of the line will be
treated by lowdown as the name of the author of the text to be processed.

On line 2, the string written after `lang: ` until the end of the line will
define for lowdown in which language the user text was predominantly written.

On line 3, the paths separated by two spaces and placed between `css: ` and the
end of the line indicate which CSS style files should be linked to the final
HTML generated by lowdown.

Furthermore, other definitions can be added to this file to adjust the lowdown
behavior, which are detailed in the lowdown manpage.

## footer.md

The footer.md file is the second template read by the Makepage script and has
two functions: to store the content to be displayed in the footer of the final
HTML page and to delimit the end of the main article, the beginning and end of
the comments section, and the beginning and end of the footer itself. Its
default content is

```
1  ;;;EndMainContent
2
3  ;;;CommentsArea
4
5  ;;;StartFooter
6
7  ---
8
9  Copyright 0-2025 Foo Bar Baz -- All rights reserved
10
11 Email: `youremail@address.ifyouwant`
12
13 ---
14
15 ;;;EndFooter
```

On line 1, the token ;;;EndMainContent delimits, for the Makepage script, the
end of the main article.

On line 3, the token ;;;CommentsArea indicates, to Makepage, the location of
the comments section in the document.

On line 5, the token ;;;StartFooter delimits, for Makepage, the beginning of
the footer.

On line 7, the three consecutive minus signs indicate to the lower end that
there should be a horizontal separator line in the final document.

On line 9, there is a fake example of a copyright notice.

On line 11, there is a fake email example.

On line 13, the content of line 7 is repeated.

On line 15, the token `;;;EndFooter` delimits, for Makepage, the end of the
footer.

## head.html

By default, the head.html file is the third template read by the Makepage
script after the initial HTML page build, and it stores the settings that will
be inserted into the head of the final HTML. Therefore, its content is...

```
1 <link rel="icon" type="image/x-icon" href="/absolute/path/to/website/icon.ico">
2 <!-- Insert here the giscus configuration
3 tag for your page if you want -->
4 </head>
```

On line 1, the link tag initially points to a non-existent icon for the site.
Therefore, it must be reconfigured to indicate an absolute and true path to an
icon that represents the site.

On lines 2 and 3, there is an HTML comment suggesting the insertion of a custom
[Giscus](https://giscus.app) configuration.

On line 4, there is the closing tag for the head to replace the </head> that
was removed from the final HTML page during the insertion of the head.html
content by the Makepage script.

## nav.html

Read after the files mentioned above, the nav.html file essentially contains
the site navigation links that will be placed at the top of the generated HTML
pages. Its default content is

```
1 <body>
2 <nav><!-- nav -->
3 <a href=""><===</a><!-- nav arrow -->
4 <a href="..">(BACK)</a><!-- nav back -->
5 <a href="">===></a><!-- nav arrow -->
6 </nav><!-- nav endtag -->
7 <hr/>
8 ;;;StartMainContent
9 ;;;InfoLastModified
```

Line 1 contains the opening tag of the body to replace the one removed from the
final HTML page during the insertion of nav.html content by the Makepage
script.

Line 2 contains the opening tag of the navigation block.

Line 3 contains a link labeled with an arrow pointing to the left, but the
link, being misconfigured, does not point anywhere.

Line 4 contains a link displayed as "(BACK)" and it points to the parent
directory.

Line 5, similarly to line 3, contains a right-pointing arrow link, but it has
no defined destination.

Line 6 contains the closing tag of the navigation block.

Line 7 contains a horizontal line tag.

Line 8 contains the token ";;;StartMainContent", which delimits the beginning
of the main content of the page.

On line 9, there is the token ";;;InfoLastModified", which will be overwritten
by the date and time of the page's last modification.
